

    Codecademy logo
    Community
    Catalog
    Pricing

New and Improved! Check out the new Python 3 course for Codecademy’s most up-to-date Python curriculum.
Learn Python 2

Learn the basics of the world's fastest growing and most popular programming language used by software engineers, analysts, data scientists, and machine learning engineers alike.
Python Illustration

    Overview
    Syllabus

Why Learn Python?

Python is a general-purpose, versatile and popular programming language. It's great as a first language because it is concise and easy to read, and it is also a good language to have in any programmer's stack as it can be used for everything from web development to software development and scientific applications.
Take-Away Skills:

This course is a great introduction to both fundamental programming concepts and the Python programming language. By the end, you'll be comfortable programming in Python and taking your skills off the Codecademy platform and onto your own computer.

Join4,318,472people who have taken this course

Time to Complete
    25 Hours
Prerequisites
    None

Codecademy courses have been taken by employees at
Google LogoFacebook LogoNASA LogoIBM LogoDropbox LogoQuora Logo
What you'll learn

    1

In this course, learn about the syntax of the Python programming language!
2

This course will introduce you to strings and console output in Python.
3

Learn how to use conditionals and control flow to create programs that generate different outcomes.
4

Learn how to create and use functions in Python!
5

In this course, you will learn about the data structures lists and dictionaries.

    + 7 more lessons

What you'll create

Portfolio projects that showcase your new skills
Pro Logo

    Tip Calculator

    It's time to build fluency in Python fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice syntax in Python so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world. Why? You've done a great job so far on your quest to learn Python. Let's build something to solidify your newfound knowledge. What's next? Calculator, tipping, more Python. You got this!
    Python Mad Libs

    It's time to build fluency in Python fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice inputs and print in Python so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world. Why? Being able to take inputs and print results is a key part of programming. What's next? Mad Libs, user inputs, more Python. You got this!
    Area Calculator

    It's time to build fluency in Python fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice functions and conditionals in Python so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world. Why? Ever wanted to automate your math homework? Time to build something in Python that does just that. What's next? Shapes, math, more Python. You got this!

How you'll master it

Stress-test your knowledge with quizzes that help commit syntax to memory
Pro Logo

    Python Syntax

    Strings and Console Output

    Conditionals and Control Flow

testimonial

    “
    I know from first-hand experience that you can go in knowing zero, nothing, and just get a grasp on everything as you go and start building right away.
    ”
    — Madelyn, Pinterest

Codecademy
About
Stories
We're Hiring
Catalog
By Subject
Full Catalog
Web Development
Programming
Data Science
Partnerships
Design
By Language
HTML & CSS
Python
JavaScript
Java
SQL
Bash/Shell
Ruby
C++
Resources
Beta Courses
Articles
Forums
Help
Blog
Privacy PolicyTerms
Made in NYC © 2019 Codecademy
