
DataCamp

    Learn

    Pricing
    For Business

Interactive Course
Introduction to Python

Master the basics of data analysis in Python. Expand your skill set by learning scientific computing with numpy.

    4 hours
    11 Videos
    57 Exercises
    1,246,869 Participants
    4,700 XP

Create Your Free Account
or

By continuing you accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, that your data will be stored outside of the EU, and that you are 16 years or older.

This course is part of these tracks:

    Data Analyst with Python
    Data Scientist with Python
    Python Programmer
    Python Programming

Filip Schouwenaars
Filip Schouwenaars

Data Science Instructor at DataCamp

Filip is the passionate developer behind several of DataCamp's interactive courses, covering both R and Python. Under the motto 'Eat your own dog food', he has used the techniques DataCamp teaches its students to perform data analysis for DataCamp. Filip holds degrees in Electrical Engineering and Artificial Intelligence.
Collaborator(s)

    Vincent Vankrunkelsven

    Vincent Vankrunkelsven
    Patrick Varilly

    Patrick Varilly

Datasets

    MLB (baseball)
    FIFA (soccer)

Course Description

Python is a general-purpose programming language that is becoming more and more popular for doing data science. Companies worldwide are using Python to harvest insights from their data and get a competitive edge. Unlike any other Python tutorial, this course focuses on Python specifically for data science. In our Intro to Python class, you will learn about powerful ways to store and manipulate data as well as cool data science tools to start your own analyses. Enter DataCamp’s online Python curriculum.

    1
    Python Basics

    An introduction to the basic concepts of Python. Learn how to use Python both interactively and through a script. Create your first variables and acquaint yourself with Python's basic data types.
    View Chapter Details

2
Python Lists

Learn to store, access and manipulate data in lists: the first step towards efficiently working with huge amounts of data.
View Chapter Details
3
Functions and Packages

To leverage the code that brilliant Python developers have written, you'll learn about using functions, methods and packages. This will help you to reduce the amount of code you need to solve challenging problems!
View Chapter Details
4
NumPy

NumPy is a Python package to efficiently do data science. Learn to work with the NumPy array, a faster and more powerful alternative to the list, and take your first steps in data exploration.
View Chapter Details

Learn

    Courses
    Skill Tracks
    Career Tracks
    Pricing
    Become an Instructor

Resources

    Community
    RDocumentation
    Course Editor
    Upcoming Courses
    Support

Plans

    For Business
    For Classrooms

About

    Stories
    Careers
    Contact
    Press
    Privacy Policy
    Terms of Use

Logo full filled white

DataCamp offers interactive R, Python, Sheets, SQL and shell courses. All on topics in data science, statistics and machine learning. Learn from a team of expert teachers in the comfort of your browser with video lessons and fun coding challenges and projects.
About the company

App store badge Play store badge
© 2019 DataCamp Inc.
