 Ques10StudyExploreLogin
Question: Communication protocols for RPC
0
This question appears in Mumbai University > Parallel And Distributed System subject

Marks: 10 M

Year: May 12

mumbai universitycomputer engineeringparallel and distributed systemssem 8 • 5.9k views
ADD COMMENT • link • 
modified 2.9 years ago  •	written 2.9 years ago by
gravatar for Sayali Bagwe Sayali Bagwe • 1.9k
0
Based on the needs of different systems, several communication protocols have been proposed for use in RPC which are mentioned below:

i.The Request Protocol

enter image description here

This protocol is also called as R (request) protocol.
It is used in RPC when a called procedure has nothing to return as a result of execution and the requirement of client confirmation about procedure execution is not needed.
As no acknowledgement or reply message is involved, only single message is transmitted from client to server.
The client proceeds after the request message is sent as there is no reply message.
This protocol provides May-be call semantics and does not need retransmission of request messages.
RPC that uses the R protocol is known as asynchronous RPC which helps to improve the combined performance of the client and server. This is done because the client does not ait for a reply and server does not need to send a reply.
For an asynchronous RPC, the RPCRuntime does not retry a request in case of communication failure. TCP is better alternative then UDP since no retransmission is required and it is connection oriented.
Asynchronous RPC with unreliable transport protocol are generally used in implementing periodic update services. Distributed system window is one of its applications.
ii.The Request/Reply protocol

enter image description here

This protocol is also known as RR(request/reply) protocol.
It is useful for designing systems which involve simple RPCs.
In a simple RPC all the arguments and result fit in a single packet buffer while the call duration and intervals between calls are short.
This protocol is based on the idea of using implicit acknowledgement to eliminate explicit acknowledgement messages.
In this protocol a server reply is considered as an ACK for a clients request and a subsequent call from a client is considered as ACK of the client’s previous call.
Timeout-and-retires technique is used with RR protocol for failure handling. Retransmission of request message is done when there is no response.
RR protocol and timeout technique provides at-least-once call semantics on if duplicate requests are not filtered out.
Exactly once semantics are supported by servers using reply cache which stores replies.
iii.The Request/Reply/Acknowledgement-Reply Protocol

enter image description here

This protocol is also known as RRA (request/reply/acknowledge-reply) protocol.
*
*
*
@author: Mohit Nainwal
*
*
*RR protocol implements exactly once semantics which requires storage of a lot of information in the server cache and can lead to loss of replies that have not been delivered.
To overcome the limitations or RR protocol, RSA protocol is used.
In this clients acknowledge the receipt of reply messages and the server deletes information from its cache only after it receives an acknowledgement from client.
Sometimes the reply acknowledgement message may get lost therefore RRA protocol needs a unique ordered message identifiers. This keeps a track of the acknowledgement series sent.
ADD COMMENT • link
written 2.9 years ago by
gravatar for Sayali Bagwe Sayali Bagwe • 1.9k
Please log in to add an answer.
Recommended
 

Similar posts • Search »
Nothing matches yet.
 
Get it on Google Play
Engineering in your pocket
Download our mobile app and study on-the-go. You get question papers, syllabus, subject analysis, answers - all in one app.

COMPANY
About Us
Community
Blog
CONTENT
Question Papers
Books
Topics
HELP
Refund
Policy
Latest
Privacy & Terms Contact Us    