×
EdX and its Members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. By using this website, you accept this use. Learn more about these technologies in the Privacy Policy.
Skip to main content
edX Home Page
CoursesCourses menuPrograms & DegreesPrograms & Degrees menuSchools & PartnersedX for Business
Search:Submit a course search
Sign InRegister
You are here
Home > All Subjects > Computer Science > Machine Learning
Machine Learning
Machine Learning
Master the essentials of machine learning and algorithms to help improve learning from data without human intervention.

Columbia University Logo
Archived
Future Dates To Be Announced (View a list ofmore dates)
Enroll Now, Machine Learning
I would like to receive email from Columbia University and learn about other offerings related to Machine Learning.

This course is part of a MicroMasters Program

About this course Skip Course Description
Machine Learning is the basis for the most exciting careers in data analysis today. You’ll learn the models and methods and apply them to real world situations ranging from identifying trending news topics, to building recommendation engines, ranking sports teams and plotting the path of movie zombies.

Major perspectives covered include:

probabilistic versus non-probabilistic modeling
supervised versus unsupervised learning
Topics include: classification and regression, clustering methods, sequential models, matrix factorization, topic modeling and model selection.

Methods include: linear and logistic regression, support vector machines, tree classifiers, boosting, maximum likelihood and MAP inference, EM algorithm, hidden Markov models, Kalman filters, k-means, Gaussian mixture models, among others.

In the first half of the course we will cover supervised learning techniques for regression and classification. In this framework, we possess an output or response that we wish to predict based on a set of inputs. We will discuss several fundamental methods for performing this task and algorithms for their optimization. Our approach will be more practically motivated, meaning we will fully develop a mathematical understanding of the respective algorithms, but we will only briefly touch on abstract learning theory.

In the second half of the course we shift to unsupervised learning techniques. In these problems the end goal less clear-cut than predicting an output based on a corresponding input. We will cover three fundamental problems of unsupervised learning: data clustering, matrix factorization, and sequential models for order-dependent data. Some applications of these models include object recommendation and topic modeling.

This course is part of a MicroMasters program. If you complete all courses in the MicroMasters program in 2018, GE will guarantee you an interview in Boston for an internship or full-time role. Open to Massachusetts residents only.

What you'll learn
Supervised learning techniques for regression and classification
Unsupervised learning techniques for data modeling and analysis
Probabilistic versus non-probabilistic viewpoints
Optimization and inference algorithms for model learning
 View Course Syllabus

Skip Syllabus Description










Meet the instructor
bio for Professor John W. Paisley 
Professor John W. Paisley

Department of Electrical Engineering
Columbia University
Learner Testimonial
“Professor John Paisley was excellent in every respect. He has deep knowledge of both the theory and practice of machine learning, and was able to successfully impart some of it on us very effectively. I really enjoyed this class. It was tough, but it was worth the effort and I learned a ton!”
-- Previous student
 

Frequently Asked Questions
Who Can Take This Course? 

Unfortunately, learners from Iran and Cuba will not be able to register for this course. While edX has received licenses from the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) to offer courses to learners from these countries, our licenses do not cover this course. EdX truly regrets that US sanctions prevent us from offering all of our courses to everyone, no matter where they live.

edX Home Page
Choose Language  
edX
About
edX for Business
Affiliates
Open edX
Careers
News
Legal
Terms of Service & Honor Code
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Policy
Trademark Policy
Sitemap
Connect
Blog
Contact Us
Help Center
Media Kit
Donate
Like edX on Facebook
Follow edX on Twitter
Subscribe to the edX YouTube channel
Follow edX on LinkedIn
Follow edX on Google+
Subscribe to the edX subreddit
 Download the edX mobile app from the Apple App Store
 Download the edX mobile app from Google Play
© 2012–2019 edX Inc. 
EdX, Open edX, and MicroMasters are registered trademarks of edX Inc. | 粤ICP备17044299号-2