*
*
*
@author: Mohit Nainwal
*
*
*IT|FR|ES|EN|DE


INDUSTRIES
SOLUTIONS
PRODUCTS
COMPANY
What is Machine Learning? A definition
Home » Blog » Machine learning » What is Machine Learning? A definition
What is Machine Learning? A definition
 Machine learning
What is Machine Learning? A definition
Machine learning is an application of artificial intelligence (AI) that provides systems the ability to automatically learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning focuses on the development of computer programs that can access data and use it learn for themselves.

The process of learning begins with observations or data, such as examples, direct experience, or instruction, in order to look for patterns in data and make better decisions in the future based on the examples that we provide. The primary aim is to allow the computers learn automatically without human intervention or assistance and adjust actions accordingly.

Some machine learning methods
Machine learning algorithms are often categorized as supervised or unsupervised.

Supervised machine learning algorithms can apply what has been learned in the past to new data using labeled examples to predict future events. Starting from the analysis of a known training dataset, the learning algorithm produces an inferred function to make predictions about the output values. The system is able to provide targets for any new input after sufficient training. The learning algorithm can also compare its output with the correct, intended output and find errors in order to modify the model accordingly.
In contrast, unsupervised machine learning algorithms are used when the information used to train is neither classified nor labeled. Unsupervised learning studies how systems can infer a function to describe a hidden structure from unlabeled data. The system doesn’t figure out the right output, but it explores the data and can draw inferences from datasets to describe hidden structures from unlabeled data.
Semi-supervised machine learning algorithms fall somewhere in between supervised and unsupervised learning, since they use both labeled and unlabeled data for training – typically a small amount of labeled data and a large amount of unlabeled data. The systems that use this method are able to considerably improve learning accuracy. Usually, semi-supervised learning is chosen when the acquired labeled data requires skilled and relevant resources in order to train it / learn from it. Otherwise, acquiringunlabeled data generally doesn’t require additional resources.
Reinforcement machine learning algorithms is a learning method that interacts with its environment by producing actions and discovers errors or rewards. Trial and error search and delayed reward are the most relevant characteristics of reinforcement learning. This method allows machines and software agents to automatically determine the ideal behavior within a specific context in order to maximize its performance. Simple reward feedback is required for the agent to learn which action is best; this is known as the reinforcement signal.
Machine learning enables analysis of massive quantities of data. While it generally delivers faster, more accurate results in order to identify profitable opportunities or dangerous risks, it may also require additional time and resources to train it properly. Combining machine learning with AI and cognitive technologies can make it even more effective in processing large volumes of information.

Expert System Team
Expert System Team
Our team of IT marketing professionals and digital enthusiasts are passionate about semantic technology and cognitive computing and how it will transform our world. We’ll keep you posted on the latest Expert System products, solutions and services, and share the most interesting information on semantics, cognitive computing and AI from around the web, and from our rich library of white papers, customer case studies and more.

BLOGGERS
 Marco Varone
 Daniel Mayer
 Andrea Melegari
 Marketing Staff
CATEGORIES
Machine learning
Artificial Intelligence
Knowledge management
Social media monitorning
Cognitive computing
NLP
Enitity Extraction
Robotic Process Automation
Customer Support & Chatbot
Corporate Intelligence
Automatic Classification
Risk Mitigation
OSINT
INDUSTRIES
Banking & Insurance
Defence & Intelligence
Public Administration
Life Science & Pharma
Oil & Gas
Media & Publishing
Others
ARCHIVE
► 2019
► 2018
► 2017
► 2016
► 2015
► 2014
► 2013
► 2012
► 2011
► 2010
► 2009
► 2008
► 2007
► 2006
► 2005
► 2004
 Want to learn more?
COGITO TECHNOLOGY – DON’T SETTLE FOR LESS THAN TRUE AI

LATEST TWEET
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

Expert System
@Expert_System
 “By 2020 customers will manage 85% of their relationship with the enterprise without interacting with a human”, @Gartner_inc 
Consumers love #chatbots, companies benefit from them #deeplearning #machinelearning #NLP #AI https://www.expertsystem.com/deep-learning-for-chatbot/ …

1
8:03 PM - Jan 30, 2019
See Expert System's other Tweets
Twitter Ads info and privacy
BLOG
As for Types of Chatbots: Deep Learning for Chatbot
January 30, 2019
Natural Language Understanding: What is it and how is it different from NLP
January 22, 2019
The New Digital Customer Experience, AMLD, Lausanne, 26-29 January 2019
January 21, 2019
 INVESTOR RELATIONS
 NEWS
 RESOURCES
 DEMO
 VIDEO
 EXPERT IQ REPORTS
 NEWSLETTER
Copyright © 2018 Expert System S.p.A. | P.I. 02608970360
CONTACT
PRIVACY POLICY
TERMS OF USE
COMPANY DATA
This Website uses third party analytical and profiling cookies to offer services in line with the preferences you reveal while using the Website. If you want to learn more, or want to opt-out of cookies, click here Privacy Policy. If you continue to browse or select any links or options on the Website, you will be deemed as consenting to the use of these cookies.