Coursera
Explore

For Enterprise
Log In
Browse
Data Science
Machine Learning
Machine Learning
Financial aid available

Offered By

Stanford University
AboutSyllabusReviewsInstructorsEnrollment OptionsFAQ
About this Course

4.9
91,962 ratings
•
23,388 reviews
Machine learning is the science of getting computers to act without being explicitly programmed. In the past decade, machine learning has given us self-driving cars, practical speech recognition, effective web search, and a vastly improved understanding of the human genome. Machine learning is so pervasive today that you probably use it dozens of times a day without knowing it. Many researchers also think it is the best way to make progress towards human-level AI. In this class, you will learn about the most effective machine learning techniques, and gain practice implementing them and getting them to work for yourself. More importantly, you'll learn about not only the theoretical underpinnings of learning, but also gain the practical know-how needed to quickly and powerfully apply these techniques to new problems. Finally, you'll learn about some of Silicon Valley's best practices in innovation as it pertains to machine learning and AI.

This course provides a broad introduction to machine learning, datamining, and statistical pattern recognition. Topics include: (i) Supervised learning (parametric/non-parametric algorithms, support vector machines, kernels, neural networks). (ii) Unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction, recommender systems, deep learning). (iii) Best practices in machine learning (bias/variance theory; innovation process in machine learning and AI). The course will also draw from numerous case studies and applications, so that you'll also learn how to apply learning algorithms to building smart robots (perception, control), text understanding (web search, anti-spam), computer vision, medical informatics, audio, database mining, and other areas.
SHOW ALL
SKILLS YOU WILL GAIN
Logistic Regression
Artificial Neural Network
Machine Learning (ML) Algorithms
Machine Learning
100% online
Start instantly and learn at your own schedule.
Flexible deadlines
Reset deadlines in accordance to your schedule.
Approx. 55 hours to complete
Suggested: 7 hours/week
English
Subtitles: English, Chinese
(Simplified), Hebrew, Spanish, Hindi,
Japanese
Syllabus - What you will learn from this course
WEEK
1
2 hours to complete
Introduction
Welcome to Machine Learning! In this module, we introduce the core idea of teaching a computer to learn concepts using data—without being
explicitly programmed. The Course Wiki is under construction. Please visit the resources tab for the most complete and up-to-date information.
5 videos (Total 42 min), 9 readings, 1 quiz
2 hours to complete
Linear Regression with One Variable
Linear regression predicts a real-valued output based on an input value. We discuss the application of linear regression to housing price
prediction, present the notion of a cost function, and introduce the gradient descent method for learning.
7 videos (Total 70 min), 8 readings, 1 quiz
2 hours to complete
Linear Algebra Review
This optional module provides a refresher on linear algebra concepts. Basic understanding of linear algebra is necessary for the rest of the
course, especially as we begin to cover models with multiple variables.
6 videos (Total 61 min), 7 readings, 1 quiz
WEEK
2
3 hours to complete
Linear Regression with Multiple Variables
What if your input has more than one value? In this module, we show how linear regression can be extended to accommodate multiple input
features. We also discuss best practices for implementing linear regression.
8 videos (Total 65 min), 16 readings, 1 quiz
5 hours to complete
Octave/Matlab Tutorial
This course includes programming assignments designed to help you understand how to implement the learning algorithms in practice. To
complete the programming assignments, you will need to use Octave or MATLAB. This module introduces Octave/Matlab and sh... 
6 videos (Total 80 min), 1 reading, 2 quizzes
WEEK
3
2 hours to complete
Logistic Regression
Logistic regression is a method for classifying data into discrete outcomes. For example, we might use logistic regression to classify an email as
spam or not spam. In this module, we introduce the notion of classification, the cost function for logistic regression, and the appl... 
7 videos (Total 71 min), 8 readings, 1 quiz
4 hours to complete
Regularization
Machine learning models need to generalize well to new examples that the model has not seen in practice. In this module, we introduce
regularization, which helps prevent models from overfitting the training data.
4 videos (Total 39 min), 5 readings, 2 quizzes
WEEK
4
5 hours to complete
Neural Networks: Representation
Neural networks is a model inspired by how the brain works. It is widely used today in many applications: when your phone interprets and
understand your voice commands, it is likely that a neural network is helping to understand your speech; when you cash a check... 
7 videos (Total 63 min), 6 readings, 2 quizzes
4.9

23,388 Reviews
40%
started a new career after completing these courses
37%
got a tangible career benefit from this course
Top Reviews
By CC•JUN 20TH 2018
good course; just 2 suggestions: improve the skew data part (week 6) and furnish the formula to evaluate the number of iteration in the window from image dimension, window dimension and step (week 11)

By SK•OCT 26TH 2017
Amazing course for people looking to understand few important aspects of machine learning in terms of linear algebra and how the algorithms work! Definitely will help me in my future modelling efforts

Instructor
Andrew Ng
CEO/Founder Landing AI; Co-founder, Coursera; Adjunct Professor, Stanford University; formerly Chief Scientist,Baidu and founding lead of Google Brain
About Stanford University
The Leland Stanford Junior University, commonly referred to as Stanford University or
Stanford, is an American private research university located in Stanford, California on an
8,180-acre (3,310 ha) campus near Palo Alto, California, United States.
Start Learning Today
Financial Aid Available

Shareable onLinkedIn
You can share your Course Certificates in the Certifications section of your LinkedIn profile, on printed resumes, CVs, or other documents.
Frequently Asked Questions
When will I have access to the lectures and assignments?


What will I get if I purchase the Certificate?


What is the refund policy?


Is financial aid available?


More questions? Visit the Learner Help Center.

People interested in this course also viewed
Coursera
Coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online.
© 2019 Coursera Inc. All rights reserved.
Download on the App Store
Get it on Google Play
COURSERA
About
Leadership
Careers
Catalog
Certificates
Degrees
For Enterprise
For Government
COMMUNITY
Learners
Partners
Developers
Beta Testers
Translators
CONNECT
Blog
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Google+
Tech Blog
MORE
Terms
Privacy
Help
Accessibility
Press
Contact
Directory
Affiliates