
Buea
Trips
Inbox
Profile
Join
Search
It was fun - IYA
Africa  Cameroon  Southwest Region  Buea  Buea Restaurants  IYA
“It was fun”
 Review of IYA
 Photo of IYA Photo of IYA Photo of IYA IYA Restaurant - The Building Photo of IYA Photo of IYA Photo of IYA Photo of IYA IMG_20161121_203042_large.jpg
34 photos
IYA
 IYA Avenue, former Allianz Franco, Buea, Cameroon  +237 6 65 00 10 00   Website   E-mail   Improve this listing
Ranked #1 of 2 Restaurants in Buea
 20 Reviews
Description: IYA is a fine dinning restaurant that pays homage to Cameroon's rich & diverse gastronomy and cultural heritage. We serve a seasonal menu with a focus on local produce, high quality ingredients and Cameroonian flavours. Our chefs - led and trained by gourmet chef Dieuveil Malonga - put a forward thinking-spin on traditional dishes whose guarded recipes have been entrusted to us by the revered IYAs - mothers - of our community, resulting in dishes that are both modern and comforting. IYA establishes itself as a leading Food & Culture destination in Cameroon, and a contender for a memorable African gastronomic experience in general.

Abimni S
31
Reviewed 25 July 2017 via mobile
It was fun
Loved the place.. And I want to tell others to come check out IYA it's the best u can ever find in Buea.. Especially tourists

Date of visit: February 2017
Ask Abimni S about IYA
1  Thank Abimni S
This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC
Write a Review
JPMiles / Payback Arrow75
JPMiles / Payback ArrowReviews (20)
Traveller rating

Excellent14

Very good5

Average1

Poor0

Terrible0
Traveller type

Families

Couples

Solo

Business

Friends
Time of year

Mar-May

Jun-Aug

Sep-Nov

Dec-Feb
Language

All languages

English (15)

French (4)

Dutch (1)
See what travellers are saying:

3 - 7 of 20 reviews


Ingrid T
Douala
21
Reviewed 2 July 2017 via mobile
Speechless!!!
I had the chance to visit IYA ... and I must say that it is more than a restaurant it is a culinary experience...The food is delicious cocktails are great ,waiters are caring ....You will feel like home...I discover another way to eat Cameroonian dishes....For me it is one of the best restaurant in Cameroon

Date of visit: July 2017




Ask Ingrid T about IYA
1  Thank Ingrid T
This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC

futtrup
Aarhus, Denmark
7943
Reviewed 22 January 2017 via mobile
Beautiful place
Having tried the local hotel food, we were happy to find this place nearby (as the only Buea place on TripAdvisor). We had dinner here twice, and five stars for the settings, the building, the service. We tried many of the dishes, and the quality and sizes varied a lot. Some were really good, some not so much (like the grilled meat was 50% fat). We were lucky to have a great Canadian white wine for one of the dinners.

Date of visit: January 2017
Ask futtrup about IYA
1  Thank futtrup
This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC

Romulanix
Bucharest, Romania
244107
Reviewed 28 November 2016 via mobile
Very nice place
The restaurant looks very good for Cameroon standards and is located next to the main boulevard of Buea. The personnel was very friendly, offering information for every dish on the menu, making suggestions that met our requests.
The food is decent, not spectacular, however we had a nice dinner overall.

Date of visit: November 2016



Ask Romulanix about IYA
1  Thank Romulanix
This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC
i X, Manager at IYA, responded to this review
Responded 2 December 2016
Thank you very much. We're pleased you had a nice dinner. We appreciate your comment and always look to follow-up and improve wherever possible. We look to make our way to spectacular next time. What in your opinion would've made the food spectacular?

Report response as inappropriateThis response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not of TripAdvisor LLC

Doppler9
79
Reviewed 21 August 2016 via mobile
Perfect all-round
Iya is stylish, modern, African and professional in every way. A beautiful location with a view of Mount Cameroon; exquisite custom-built furniture and decor; delicious food; excellent service. I hosted a lunch for some of Buea's top software developers and it was the perfect choice. Relaxed and flexible. Manager Flobert was à l'écoute and reactive. Highly recommended.

Date of visit: August 2016
Ask Doppler9 about IYA
Thank Doppler9
This review is the subjective opinion of a TripAdvisor member and not of TripAdvisor LLC
i X, Manager at IYA, responded to this review
Responded 2 December 2016
Thank you Doppler9. We greatly appreciate the recommendation, and glad our manager Flobert was à l'écoute. We always look to ensure our guests have a wonderful experience at IYA. We look to welcome you again very soon.

Report response as inappropriateThis response is the subjective opinion of the management representative and not of TripAdvisor LLC
PreviousNext1234
Travellers who viewed IYA also viewed
 Arne's Cafe
Arne's Cafe
 47 Reviews
Limbe, Southwest Region
 Parker Place Restaurant Banquet & Cabaret
Parker Place Restaurant Banquet & Cabaret
 13 Reviews
Limbe, Southwest Region

 Paradise of Taste
Paradise of Taste
 6 Reviews
Limbe, Southwest Region
 Top Spot
Top Spot
 13 Reviews
Limbe, Southwest Region

 Mars
Mars
 3 Reviews
Limbe, Southwest Region
 Wood Fire Pizza House
Wood Fire Pizza House
 1 Review
Limbe, Southwest Region

All restaurants in Buea (2)
Been to IYA? Share your experiences!
JPMiles / PAYBACK 75JPMiles / Payback Arrow
Write a Review Add Photos & Videos
Owners: What's your side of the story?
Own or manage this property? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews, update your profile and much more.

Claim Your Listing
Viewed restaurants
 IYA
IYA
 20 Reviews
Ask a question
Get quick answers from IYA staff and past visitors.



 Get notified about new answers to your questions.
Ask  Posting guidelines
Browse nearby
Restaurants (2) | Hotels (3) | Places to Visit (4)

© 2019 TripAdvisor LLC All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Site Map
* TripAdvisor LLC is not a booking agent and does not charge any service fees to users of our site... (more)
TripAdvisor LLC is not responsible for content on external web sites. Taxes, fees not included for deals content.
EXPLORE
About Us
Help Centre
CURRENCY/REGION
₹INR
India

https://www.tripadvisor.in/ShowUserReviews-g482837-d8854791-r505457804-IYA-Buea_Southwest_Region.html#