

By using the THE website you agree to our use of cookies as described in our cookie policy.
Skip to main content
Times Higher Education

    Professional
    Jobs
    Summits
    Rankings
    Student
    About Us

    Login Register Subscribe 

    Home Student Subjects Computer Science 

Computer science
Top universities where you can study computer science

    Share on twitter
    Share on facebook
    Share on linkedin
    Share on instagram

A degree in computer science is essentially the study of information and computation, using a scientific and practical approach. Any type of calculation or use of computing technology is defined as computation. Computer science degrees cover the technology involved in well-defined models, like algorithms and protocols, to aid the acquisition, representation, processing, storage, communication of and access to information.

Computer science (which is sometimes used as an umbrella term for all kinds of specialist study of computers and technology) involves core subjects such as the theory of computation, basic programming and the principles of computer hardware – among others. A good grasp of mathematics is essential, as you will cover topics such as Boolean algebra, probability and calculus.

Specialist computer science modules are numerous and ever expanding in range, from artificial intelligence to web development to ethical hacking. Choosing to study computer science is a savvy choice in an increasingly technology-driven world and it could lead to working on the front line of the world’s greatest innovations.

Some courses may include an optional year spent working within the industry, which is invaluable in developing key skills and building contacts. It is also recommended that students maintain a portfolio of personal projects, for example, proof of having built a website or online moderation. This may be work done as a favour or for free, but it shows the initiative and passion that is required to be successful in the computational industry.

Skills gained in a computer science degree are bound to be invaluable across a broad spectrum of different industries, although many graduates will pursue roles with the computer industry; this might be as an IT consultant, an information systems manager, a database administrator, or a multimedia programmer.

 
Read more
I want to study
in
Group of students looking at computer monitor
What can you do with a computer science degree?

Computer science degrees can lead to a wide range of fulfilling and rewarding jobs. This guide outlines course structure, entry requirements and career paths for computer science students.
22 February
Featured Computer Science
Concept Art for Games and Film (with a foundation year) (2019)
Staffordshire University
United Kingdom
Computer Graphics, Imaging and Multimedia with a Year in Industry
University of East Anglia
United Kingdom
Computer Science (Game Engineering)
Newcastle University
United Kingdom
Bachelor of Applied Data Analytics
Australian National University
Australia
Universities where you can study computer science
Lancaster University
University of Alabama at Birmingham
University of New Hampshire
Kingston University
Hong Kong Baptist University
Shantou University
Monmouth University
University of Auckland

    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    …
    next ›
    last »

Current top for Computer science
	
University	Rank*
University of Oxford	1st
ETH Zurich	2nd
Stanford University	3rd
University of Cambridge	4th
Massachusetts Institute of Technology	5th
Carnegie Mellon University	6th
Georgia Institute of Technology	7th
Princeton University	8th
Harvard University	9th
California Institute of Technology	10th
*University's current rank in the overall Computer Science Rankings

View the World University Rankings 2019 by subject: computer science
Follow Us

    THE on twitter
    THE on facebook
    THE on linkedin
    THE on instagram
    THE on weibo

Sign up with us for free!

    Shortlist universities
    Comment on articles
    Contact authors

For Students

Find the best university for you, compare and shortlist from universities world wide

Find out about what's going on in higher education around the world

Going to university? Already at college? We have useful and regularly updated features for students at all stages of their education

    Contact Us
    Write for the THE
    Terms & Conditions
    Privacy
    Cookie Policy

    English Simplified Chinese

Times Higher Education subscriptions

Subscribe

If you like what you're reading online, why not take advantage of our subscription and get unlimited access to all of Times Higher Education's content?

You'll get full access to our website, print and digital editions, and the Times Higher Education app for iOS, Android and Kindle Fire devices.
Help us tailor your experience:

Which one of these best describes you?
None of these
