
International Student
Study In:

    Sign Up
    Sign In

    Popular
    Study Centers
    Products & Services
    Resources
    Socialize

    International Student
    Study Centers
    Study Guide by Subject
    Study Computer Science in the US
    What is Computer Science?

What is Computer Science?
Computer Science

Computer science is the third most popular major amongst international students coming to the United States. Therfe are many reasons that computer science is so popular, including exceptional job security, uncommonly high starting salaries, and diverse job opportunities across industries. However, an international student contemplating studying computer science needs to ask themself, "What is computer science?"

So, what is computer science? Generally speaking, computer science is the study of computer technology, both hardware and software. However, computer science is a diverse field; the required skills are both applicable and in-demand across practically every industry in today's technology-dependent world. As such, the field of computer science is divided amongst a range of sub-disciplines, most of which are full-fledged specialized disciplines in and of themselves. The field of computer science spans several core areas: computer theory, hardware systems, software systems, and scientific computing. Students will choose credits from amongst these sub-disciplines with varying levels of specialization depending on the desired application of the computer science degree. Though most strict specialization occurs at the graduate level, knowing exactly what computer science is (and where a student's interests fall within this vast field) is of paramount importance to knowing how to study computer science.
Computer Science Disciplines

The disciplines encompassed by a computer science degree are incredibly vast, and an international student must know how to study computer science or, in other words, how to effectively navigate amongst this sea of sub-disciplines and specializations. Here are a few possible areas of specialization available to students pursuing computer science degrees:

    Applied Mathematics
    Digital Image/ Sound
    Artificial Intelligence
    Microprogramming
    Bioinformatics
    Networks And Administration
    Computer Architecture Networks
    Cryptography
    Computer Engineering
    Operating Systems
    Computer Game Development
    Robotics
    Computer Graphics
    Simulation And Modeling
    Computer Programming
    Software Development
    Software Systems
    Data Management
    Web Development
    Design Databases
    Parallel Programming
    iOS Development
    Mobile Development
    Memory Systems
    Computational Physics

With so many available options, having a specific focus in mind while studying computer science in the United States is the best plan of action for any international student hoping to seriously prepare for their future on the job market. Knowing how to study computer science and effectively planning which type of degree to receive will depend on how well the student understands the discipline of computer science, and deciding which degree is right for a student is a move that will determine what sorts of computer science careers the student is eligible for upon graduating. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance to plan a specific computer science degree that will enable you to pursue the career you want.

Despite the seemingly endless variety of applications and sub-disciplines an international student studying computer science in the United States will have to navigate, asking important questions like, "What is computer science?" is a great way to begin a successful education and, ultimately, career. Moreover, there are plenty of free resources available for studying computer science. For instance, a great resource for international students trying to study computer science in the United States can be the websites of specific institutions. These websites will not only convey what sorts of computer science degrees are available at their institution (as well as any specialties), they will also often have pages specifically to assist interested international students. Program course credit breakdowns, scholarship and internship opportunities, ongoing research, all these vital facts about an institution can be found on their computer science program's website.

Another great resource for international students is the Study Computer Science guide. The guide is a wealth of information on topics ranging from questions about where to study computer science, to providing internship and career advice.
Learn more about studying computer science in the USA by reading our growing article collection.

« Study Guide by Subject	  « Study Computer Science in the U.S.	

Over time we will be updating this section and including more information for those who want to study computer science in the USA and for other countries, but please feel free to post your thoughts and comments on our Facebook fan page or Google Circle, and also follow us and post questions through Twitter.
Study Computer Science in the USA Guide

    Study Computer Science Overview
    What is Computer Science?
    Where to Study Computer Science
    Top Schools for Computer Science
    Undergraduate Degree in Computer Science
    Graduate Degree in Computer Science
    Study Mobile Development
    Computer Science Internships
    Careers in Computer Science
    Study Software Development

USA School Search

Search By Name

View Featured School
Computer Science Programs

Visit the Study in the USA School search to find schools that offer programs of study in Computer Science.

Find Schools Now
Featured Schools with Computer Science Programs

‹
›

Latest Tweets

Valencia College is recognized as one of the best colleges in the nation, receiving the inaugural Aspen Prize for C… https://t.co/qddmQtUVgh
The Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México's (UNAM) mission focuses on three main areas: teaching, research, and t… https://t.co/ibng2RcFuo
For #NationalPlanYourVacationDay, we're daydreaming about our next break. If you could visit anywhere in the worl… https://t.co/2m3EhD6DS4
95% of former students felt good about their decision to attend Atlantis University (AU), and 90% indicated that th… https://t.co/z0o2ROadTy
Int'l Student
Int'l Student
@intstudent

Get the International Student Newsletter!

I consent to the storage of my personal data so that International Student can deliver the monthly newsletter and other relevant emails to me. I agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Statement, which detail my rights to control my personal data under US law, as this is a US-based website, but also consistent with the principles of the EU’s GDPR.

InternationalStudent.com
About International Student

Our vision is to be the company that best recognizes and serves the needs of international students around the world. We strive to provide students world-class resources to help them investigate and pursue an international education, through relevant content, custom online tools and engaging websites that offer only best in class products and services.

    About Us
    Contact
    Privacy Policy
    Advertising
    Partners
    Sitemap

    Home
    Study Centers
    Products & Services
    Resources
    Blogs & Forums

InternationalStudent.com
224 First Street
Neptune Beach, FL 32266
© 2019 Envisage International Corporation
