Data is a set of values of subjects with respect to qualitative or quantitative variables.

Data and information or knowledge are often used interchangeably; however data becomes information when it is viewed in context or in post-analysis [2].
While the concept of data is commonly associated with scientific research, data is collected by a huge range of organizations and institutions, including businesses (e.g., sales data, revenue, profits, stock price), governments (e.g., crime rates, unemployment rates, literacy rates) and non-governmental organizations (e.g., censuses of the number of homeless people by non-profit organizations).

Data is measured, collected and reported, and analyzed, whereupon it can be visualized using graphs, images or other analysis tools.
Data as a general concept refers to the fact that some existing information or knowledge is represented or coded in some form suitable for better usage or processing. Raw data ("unprocessed data") is a collection of numbers or characters before it has been "cleaned" and corrected by researchers. Raw data needs to be corrected to remove outliers or obvious instrument or data entry errors (e.g., a thermometer reading from an outdoor Arctic location recording a tropical temperature). Data processing commonly occurs by stages, and the "processed data" from one stage may be considered the "raw data" of the next stage. Field data is raw data that is collected in an uncontrolled "in situ" environment. Experimental data is data that is generated within the context of a scientific investigation by observation and recording. Data has been described as the new oil of the digital economy.[3][4]

Etymology and terminology

The first English use of the word "data" is from the 1640s. The word "data" was first used to mean "transmissible and storable computer information" in 1946. The expression "data processing" was first used in 1954.[5]

The Latin word data is the plural of datum, "(thing) given," neuter past participle of dare "to give".[5] Data may be used as a plural noun in this sense, with some writers—usually scientific writers—in the 20th century using datum in the singular and data for plural.
However, over the course of time this usage has vanished from the English language, and everyday writing, "data" is most commonly used in the singular, as a mass noun (like "information", "sand" or "rain").[6]

Meaning

Data, information, knowledge and wisdom are closely related concepts, but each has its own role in relation to the other, and each term has its own meaning.
According to a common view, data is collected and analyzed; data only becomes information suitable for making decisions once it has been analyzed in some fashion.[7]
One can say that the extent to which a set of data is informative to someone depends on the extent to which it is unexpected by that person. The amount of information content in a data stream may be characterized by its Shannon entropy.

Knowledge is the understanding based on extensive experience dealing with information on a subject.
For example, the height of Mount Everest is generally considered data.
The height can be measured precisely with an altimeter and entered into a database.
This data may be included in a book along with other data on Mount Everest to describe the mountain in a manner useful for those who wish to make a decision about the best method to climb it. An understanding based on experience climbing mountains that could advise persons on the way to reach Mount Everest's peak may be seen as "knowledge". The practical climbing of Mount Everest's peak based on this knowledge made be seen as "wisdom". In other words, wisdom refers to the practical application of a person's knowledge in those circumstances where good may result. Thus wisdom complements and completes the series "data", "information" and "knowledge" of increasingly abstract concepts.

Meaning

Data, information, knowledge and wisdom are closely related concepts, but each has its own role in relation to the other, and each term has its own meaning.
According to a common view, data is collected and analyzed; data only becomes information suitable for making decisions once it has been analyzed in some fashion.[7]
One can say that the extent to which a set of data is informative to someone depends on the extent to which it is unexpected by that person.
The amount of information content in a data stream may be characterized by its Shannon entropy.

Knowledge is the understanding based on extensive experience dealing with information on a subject.
For example, the height of Mount Everest is generally considered data. The height can be measured precisely with an altimeter and entered into a database.
This data may be included in a book along with other data on Mount Everest to describe the mountain in a manner useful for those who wish to make a decision about the best method to climb it. An understanding based on experience climbing mountains that could advise persons on the way to reach Mount Everest's peak may be seen as "knowledge". The practical climbing of Mount Everest's peak based on this knowledge made be seen as "wisdom". In other words, wisdom refers to the practical application of a person's knowledge in those circumstances where good may result. Thus wisdom complements and completes the series "data", "information" and "knowledge" of increasingly abstract concepts.