
Data
Definition - What does Data mean?

Data, in the context of computing, refers to distinct pieces of digital information. Data is usually formatted in a specific way and can exist in a variety of forms, such as numbers, text, etc. When used in the context of transmission media, data refers to information in binary digital format.
FREE WEBINAR | How to Continuously Monitor and Analyze MySQL and MariaDB with IDERA's SQL Diagnostic Manager
Techopedia explains Data

Data is a broad term in computer technology, but it is often used to identify and separate information from mere bits.

In telecommunications, data often refers to digital, rather than analog, information. Unlike analog transmissions, which require a hard-line connection for the duration of a transmission, digital data is sent in packets.
Share this:
Related Terms

    Data Modeling
    Database (DB)
    Data Packet
    Digital Data
    Analog Data
    Database Column
    Data Mart
    Data Services
    Data Cleansing
    Data-ism

Techopedia - Where IT and Business Meet
Tech moves fast! Stay ahead of the curve with Techopedia!

Join nearly 200,000 subscribers who receive actionable tech insights from Techopedia.
Related Articles
Mainframes Aren't Dead
Mainframes Aren't Dead
Web Roundup: Big Data Is Winning the Hearts of Children, Lovers and Lawyers
Web Roundup: Big Data Is Winning the Hearts of Children, Lovers and Lawyers
What Is Hadoop Exactly? A Cynic's Theory
What Is Hadoop Exactly? A Cynic's Theory
The 6 Things You Need to Get World-Changing Results with Data
The 6 Things You Need to Get World-Changing Results with Data
5 Big Privacy Problems That Come With Big Data
5 Big Privacy Problems That Come With Big Data
Data Breach Notification: The Legal and Regulatory Environment
Data Breach Notification: The Legal and Regulatory Environment
+ View More Articles
Featured Q&A

    What is the difference between little endian and big endian data formats?
    What is the difference between a mobile OS and a computer OS?
    Can mobile phones be tracked?

More of your questions answered by our Experts
Related Tags
IT Business
Computer Science
Data
Communication
Resources
FREE WEBINAR | How to Continuously Monitor and Analyze MySQL and MariaDB with IDERA's SQL Diagnostic Manager FREE WEBINAR | How to Continuously Monitor and Analyze MySQL and MariaDB with IDERA's SQL Diagnostic Manager:
Techopedia Resources | Browse Industry Leading Software Used by Techopedia Staff and Users Daily. Techopedia Resources | Browse Industry Leading Software Used by Techopedia Staff and Users Daily.:
New Whitepaper: Best Ways to Extend Endpoint Management and Security to Mobile Devices New Whitepaper: Best Ways to Extend Endpoint Management and Security to Mobile Devices:
Complimentary Webinar - Getting Control of Your BYOD Program with UEM Complimentary Webinar - Getting Control of Your BYOD Program with UEM:
Systems Monitoring for Dummies Systems Monitoring for Dummies:
What's really going on in that Cisco ASA of yours? What's really going on in that Cisco ASA of yours?:
E-Book: Compliance is Not Enough: Planning a Complete Security Strategy E-Book: Compliance is Not Enough: Planning a Complete Security Strategy:
Latest Articles
Big Data Silos: What They Are and How to Deal With Them
Big Data Silos: What They Are and How to Deal With Them
6 Tech Trends That Could Be a Thing in 2019 ... Or Not
6 Tech Trends That Could Be a Thing in 2019 ... Or Not
How AI Can Help Tackle Climate Change
How AI Can Help Tackle Climate Change
Hacking Wearable Tech: The Potential Danger of Advancing Wearable Technology
Hacking Wearable Tech: The Potential Danger of Advancing Wearable Technology
Job Role: Software Engineer
Job Role: Software Engineer
