Netflix
Netflix
UNLIMITED TV PROGRAMMES & FILMS
SIGN IN
Once Upon a Time
Once Upon a Time
201113+ Drama Programmes
In this fantasy series, a young woman is drawn to a small Maine town and discovers that it's filled with elements of the fairy tale world.
Starring:Lana Parrilla, Robert Carlyle, Jared Gilmore
Creators:Adam Horowitz, Edward Kitsis
Watch the series
This series stars Ginnifer Goodwin and Jennifer Morrison, incorporating Grimm and Disney characters.
EpisodesOnce Upon a Time

Release year: 2011
When Emma reconnects with the son she gave up for adoption, she discovers that he believes they are characters from a mysterious fairy-tale world.

Watch Pilot. Episode 1 of Season 1.
1. Pilot
44m
When Emma Swan is visited by the 10-year-old boy she gave up for adoption long ago, she returns him to his foster mother in a town called Storybrooke.

Watch The Thing You Love Most. Episode 2 of Season 1.
2. The Thing You Love Most
43m
Regina tries to push Emma out of Storybrooke -- and Henry's life. Meanwhile, information about the evil queen's curse comes to light.

Watch Snow Falls. Episode 3 of Season 1.
3. Snow Falls
43m
Emma persuades Mary Margaret to read to a comatose hospital patient. In fairy-tale world, Prince Charming and Snow White meet for the first time.

Watch The Price of Gold. Episode 4 of Season 1.
4. The Price of Gold
43m
Emma tries to help a pregnant woman get away from Mr. Gold. In fairy-tale world, Cinderella makes a deal with Rumplestiltskin.

Watch That Still Small Voice. Episode 5 of Season 1.
5. That Still Small Voice
43m
Sheriff Graham makes Emma a deputy. Back in fairy-tale world, Jiminy Cricket wants to leave the family business.

Watch The Shepherd. Episode 6 of Season 1.
6. The Shepherd
43m
David must choose between Kathryn and Mary Margaret, with whom he's fallen deeply in love. Elsewhere, Prince Charming's destiny is altered.

Watch The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter. Episode 7 of Season 1.
7. The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter
43m
As one of Storybrooke's residents starts to recall fairy-tale life, the town mourns a death, and the queen looks for an assassin to kill Snow White.

Watch Desperate Souls. Episode 8 of Season 1.
8. Desperate Souls
43m
When Emma runs for sheriff, Regina and Mr. Gold engage in dirty politics. Meanwhile, Rumplestiltskin looks for the power to help his son avoid war.

Watch True North. Episode 9 of Season 1.
9. True North
43m
Emma tries to save two kids from foster care by finding their birth father. Elsewhere, the queen has Hansel and Gretel steal an artifact from a rival.

Watch 7:15 A.M.. Episode 10 of Season 1.
10. 7:15 A.M.
43m
While David and Mary Margaret continue to struggle with their feelings, a mysterious new arrival in Storybrooke makes Regina and Emma suspicious.

Watch Fruit of the Poisonous Tree. Episode 11 of Season 1.
11. Fruit of the Poisonous Tree
43m
As Sidney asks Emma for help uncovering evidence that could expose Regina's corruption, David and Mary Margaret continue to meet secretly.

Watch Skin Deep. Episode 12 of Season 1.
12. Skin Deep
43m
When Mr. Gold's house is robbed, Emma suspects he's planning to seek vigilante justice. Meanwhile, Belle makes a deal.

Watch What Happened to Frederick. Episode 13 of Season 1.
13. What Happened to Frederick
43m
David decides to tell Kathryn about his relationship with Mary Margaret. Meanwhile, Prince Charming agrees to help Abigail with a dangerous mission.

Watch Dreamy. Episode 14 of Season 1.
14. Dreamy
43m
Mary Margaret and Leroy team up to help nuns sell candles at the Miner's Day festival. Meanwhile, Emma investigates the disappearance of David's wife.

Watch Red-Handed. Episode 15 of Season 1.
15. Red-Handed
43m
Emma gives Ruby a job as her assistant. Meanwhile, David faces questions about Kathryn's disappearance.

Watch Heart of Darkness. Episode 16 of Season 1.
16. Heart of Darkness
43m
Mary Margaret hires Mr. Gold as her attorney after Emma is forced to arrest her for the murder of David's wife.

Watch Hat Trick. Episode 17 of Season 1.
17. Hat Trick
43m
During her search for Mary Margaret, Emma is kidnapped by a madman with an affinity for hats. Meanwhile, the evil queen hires a man of magic.

Watch The Stable Boy. Episode 18 of Season 1.
18. The Stable Boy
43m
While Emma keeps searching for proof that Mary Margaret didn't murder Kathryn, the root of the evil queen's disdain for Snow White is revealed.

Watch The Return. Episode 19 of Season 1.
19. The Return
43m
As Mr. Gold attempts to expose August's true identity, Regina is confronted about her involvement in Kathryn's disappearance.

Watch The Stranger. Episode 20 of Season 1.
20. The Stranger
43m
While August takes Emma on a journey that will show her how to beat Regina and perhaps gain custody of Henry, Regina tries to seduce David.

Watch An Apple Red as Blood. Episode 21 of Season 1.
21. An Apple Red as Blood
43m
As Henry begs Emma to stay in Storybrooke, Regina works on a plot that could rid her of Emma permanently.

Watch A Land Without Magic. Episode 22 of Season 1.
22. A Land Without Magic
43m
Emma and Regina work together to save Henry's life. In fairy-tale world, Prince Charming tries to escape from the queen and reunite with Snow White.

More Details
Watch offline
Available to download
Genres
Family Watch Together TV, Drama Programmes, American Programmes, Sci-Fi & Fantasy Programmes
This programme is...
Imaginative, Exciting
Cast
Lana Parrilla
Robert Carlyle
Jared Gilmore
Jennifer Morrison
Ginnifer Goodwin
Josh Dallas
Colin O'Donoghue
Emilie de Ravin
More Originals
Grimm
Albion: The Enchanted Stallion
The Originals
The Vampire Diaries
Merlin
Chilling Adventures of Sabrina
Mirror Mirror
Into the Woods
The Little Mermaid
Shadowhunters: The Mortal Instruments
The Shannara Chronicles
Good Witch
Coming Soon
THE STRANGER
Secrets, violence and a conspiracy send family man Adam Price on a desperate quest to uncover the truth about the people closest to him.
Workin' Moms
Maternity leave is over and it's time for these four moms to return to work while navigating kids, bosses, love and life in modern-day Toronto.
Tijuana
When a prominent politician is murdered in cold blood, intrepid local journalists risk their lives to uncover the truth.
Nowhere Man
A strange encounter causes a man awaiting execution to experience alternate timelines, leading to his escape from prison to protect his family.
Shadow and Bone
Sinister forces plot against a young soldier when she reveals a magical power that might unite her world. Based on Leigh Bardugo's Grishaverse novels.
Locke & Key
After their father's gruesome murder, three siblings move into a house with magical keys that grant them powers. Adapted from the comics by Joe Hill.
The Emperor of Porn
This biopic follows the tumultuous life of director Toru Muranishi, who revolutionized the porn industry during the economic boom of 1980s Japan.
Free Rein: Valentine's Day
Love is in the air as Zoe and friends go on a quest to find a fabled Maid's Stone. But when rivalry blinds them to danger, it's Raven to the rescue!
Questions? Contact us.

FAQHelp CentreAccountMedia CentreInvestor RelationsJobsWays to WatchTerms of UsePrivacyCookie PreferencesCorporate InformationContact UsSpeed TestLegal NoticesNetflix Originals
Netflix India